an airplane landed on the beach at Port?
Yes, one of ours, luckily.
Nothing very exciting, it was only
an airplane used for towing
airborne targets.
The airplane was flown from Towing,
where there was a military base there, and an airstrip.
They were flown for the anti-aircraft base,
training base at Tom Van Hyne near Towing.
So that was everlasting flying up, parallel to both
beach you could say, maybe two or three miles out, maybe a bit more.
And that was being everlasting shot at, you know.
So there we are, that used to go up and down,
it was just there, you know, eventually.
It was just part of the scenery again, you know.
Do you know why it landed on the beach?
Yes, the airplane that landed on the beach wasn't actually from Towing,
the same type of plane, a Hawker Henley.
It was a Hawker Henley on loan to the Rolls Royce company
as a test bed for the Rolls Royce Vulture engine,
which was being developed at that time,
being put into, hopefully into the Avro Manchester,
forerunner of the Lancaster.
And it was put into a Hawker Henley to fly around the country to test it.
And the engine broke down and it landed in both,
and they had to put another engine in.
That also broke down.